docs/getting-started.md, before:

[![FIWARE Core Context Management](https://nexus.lab.fiware.org/repository/raw/public/badges/chapters/core.svg)](https://www.fiware.org/developers/catalogue/)
[![NGSI v2](https://img.shields.io/badge/NGSI-v2-blue.svg)](https://fiware-ges.github.io/core.Orion/api/v2/stable/)

**Description:** This is an Introductory Tutorial to the FIWARE Platform. We
will start with the data from a supermarket chain’s store finder and create a
very simple _“Powered by FIWARE”_ application by passing in the address and
location of each store as context data to the FIWARE context broker.

The tutorial uses [cUrl](https://ec.haxx.se/) commands throughout, but is also
available as
[Postman documentation](https://fiware.github.io/tutorials.Getting-Started/)

[![Run in Postman](https://run.pstmn.io/button.svg)](https://app.getpostman.com/run-collection/d6671a59a7e892629d2b)

---

# Architecture

Our demo application will only make use of one FIWARE component - the
[Orion Context Broker](https://fiware-orion.readthedocs.io/en/latest/). Usage of
the Orion Context Broker (with proper context data flowing through it) is
sufficient for an application to qualify as _“Powered by FIWARE”_.

Currently, the Orion Context Broker relies on open source
[MongoDB](https://www.mongodb.com/) technology to keep persistence of the
context data it holds. Therefore, the architecture will consist of two elements:

-   The [Orion Context Broker](https://fiware-orion.readthedocs.io/en/latest/)
    which will receive requests using
    [NGSI](https://fiware.github.io/specifications/OpenAPI/ngsiv2)
-   The underlying [MongoDB](https://www.mongodb.com/) database :
    -   Used by the Orion Context Broker to hold context data information such
        as data entities, subscriptions and registrations

Since all interactions between the two elements are initiated by HTTP requests,
the entities can be containerized and run from exposed ports.

![](https://fiware.github.io/tutorials.Getting-Started/img/architecture.png)

## Prerequisites

### Docker

To keep things simple both components will be run using
[Docker](https://www.docker.com). **Docker** is a container technology which
allows to different components isolated into their respective environments.

-   To install Docker on Windows follow the instructions
    [here](https://docs.docker.com/docker-for-windows/)
-   To install Docker on Mac follow the instructions
    [here](https://docs.docker.com/docker-for-mac/)
-   To install Docker on Linux follow the instructions
    [here](https://docs.docker.com/install/)

### Docker Compose (Optional)

**Docker Compose** is a tool for defining and running multi-container Docker
applications. A
[YAML file](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Fiware/tutorials.Getting-Started/master/docker-compose.yml)
is used configure the required services for the application. This means all
container services can be brought up in a single command. Docker Compose is
installed by default as part of Docker for Windows and Docker for Mac, however
Linux users will need to follow the instructions found
[here](https://docs.docker.com/compose/install/)

## Starting the containers

### Option 1) Using Docker commands directly

First pull the necessary Docker images from Docker Hub and create a network for
our containers to connect to:

```bash
docker pull mongo:3.6
docker pull fiware/orion
docker network create fiware_default
```

A Docker container running a [MongoDB](https://www.mongodb.com/) database can be
started and connected to the network with the following command:

```bash
docker run -d --name=mongo-db --network=fiware_default \
  --expose=27017 mongo:3.6 --bind_ip_all --smallfiles
```

The Orion Context Broker can be started and connected to the network with the
following command:

```bash
docker run -d --name fiware-orion -h orion --network=fiware_default \
  -p 1026:1026  fiware/orion -dbhost mongo-db
```

> **Note:** If you want to clean up and start again you can do so with the
> following commands
>
> ```
> docker stop fiware-orion
> docker rm fiware-orion
> docker stop mongo-db
> docker rm mongo-db
> docker network rm fiware_default
> ```

### Option 2) Using Docker Compose

All services can be initialised from the command-line using the `docker-compose`
command. Please clone the repository and create the necessary images by running
the commands as shown:

```bash
git clone git@github.com:Fiware/tutorials.Getting-Started.git
cd tutorials.Getting-Started

docker-compose -p fiware up -d
```

> **Note:** If you want to clean up and start again you can do so with the
> following command:
>
> ```
> docker-compose -p fiware down
> ```

## Creating your first "Powered by FIWARE" app

### Checking the service health

You can check if the Orion Context Broker is running by making an HTTP request
to the exposed port:

#### 1 Request:

```bash
curl -X GET \
  'http://localhost:1026/version'
```

#### Response:

The response will look similar to the following:

```json
{
    "orion": {
        "version": "1.12.0-next",
        "uptime": "0 d, 0 h, 3 m, 21 s",
        "git_hash": "e2ff1a8d9515ade24cf8d4b90d27af7a616c7725",
        "compile_time": "Wed Apr 4 19:08:02 UTC 2018",
        "compiled_by": "root",
        "compiled_in": "2f4a69bdc191",
        "release_date": "Wed Apr 4 19:08:02 UTC 2018",
        "doc": "https://fiware-orion.readthedocs.org/en/master/"
    }
}
```

> **What if I get a
> `Failed to connect to localhost port 1026: Connection refused` Response?**
>
> If you get a `Connection refused` response, the Orion Content Broker cannot be
> found where expected for this tutorial - you will need to substitute the URL
> and port in each cUrl command with the corrected IP address. All the cUrl
> commands tutorial assume that orion is available on `localhost:1026`.
>
> Try the following remedies:
>
> -   To check that the docker containers are running try the following:
>
> ```
> docker ps
> ```
>
> You should see two containers running. If orion is not running, you can
> restart the containers as necessary. This command will also display open port
> information.
>
> -   If you have installed [`docker-machine`](https://docs.docker.com/machine/)
>     and [Virtual Box](https://www.virtualbox.org/), the orion docker container
>     may be running from another IP address - you will need to retrieve the
>     virtual host IP as shown:
>
> ```
> curl -X GET \
>  'http://$(docker-machine ip default):1026/version'
> ```
>
> Alternatively run all your cUrl commands from within the container network:
>
> ```
> docker run --network fiware_default --rm appropriate/curl -s \
>  -X GET 'http://orion:1026/version'
> ```

## Creating Context Data

At its heart, FIWARE is a system for managing context information, so lets add
some context data into the system by creating two new entities (stores in
**Berlin**). Any entity must have a `id` and `type` attributes, additional
attributes are optional and will depend on the system being described. Each
additional attribute should also have a defined `type` and a `value` attribute.

#### 2 Request:

```bash
curl -iX POST \
  'http://localhost:1026/v2/entities' \
  -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
  -d '
{
    "id": "urn:ngsi-ld:Store:001",
    "type": "Store",
    "address": {
        "type": "PostalAddress",
        "value": {
            "streetAddress": "Bornholmer Straße 65",
            "addressRegion": "Berlin",
            "addressLocality": "Prenzlauer Berg",
            "postalCode": "10439"
        }
    },
    "location": {
        "type": "geo:json",
        "value": {
             "type": "Point",
             "coordinates": [13.3986, 52.5547]
        }
    },
    "name": {
        "type": "Text",
        "value": "Bösebrücke Einkauf"
    }
}'
```

#### 3 Request:

Each subsequent entity must have a unique `id` for the given `type`

```bash
curl -iX POST \
  'http://localhost:1026/v2/entities' \
  -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
  -d '
{
    "type": "Store",
    "id": "urn:ngsi-ld:Store:002",
    "address": {
        "type": "PostalAddress",
        "value": {
            "streetAddress": "Friedrichstraße 44",
            "addressRegion": "Berlin",
            "addressLocality": "Kreuzberg",
            "postalCode": "10969"
        }
    },
    "location": {
        "type": "geo:json",
        "value": {
             "type": "Point",
             "coordinates": [13.3903, 52.5075]
        }
    },
    "name": {
        "type": "Text",
        "value": "Checkpoint Markt"
    }
}'
```

### Data Model Guidelines

Although the each data entity within your context will vary according to your
use case, the common structure within each data entity should be standardized
order to promote reuse. The full FIWARE data model guidelines can be found
[here](https://fiware-datamodels.readthedocs.io/en/latest/guidelines/index.html).
This tutorial demonstrates the usage of the following recommendations:

#### All terms are defined in American English

Although the `value` fields of the context data may be in any language, all
attributes and types are written using the English language.

#### Entity type names must start with a Capital letter

In this case we only have one entity type - **Store**

#### Entity IDs should be a URN following NGSI-LD guidelines

NGSI-LD is a currently a
[draft recommendation](https://docbox.etsi.org/ISG/CIM/Open/ISG_CIM_NGSI-LD_API_Draft_for_public_review.pdf),
however the proposal is that each `id` is a URN follows a standard format:
`urn:ngsi-ld:<entity-type>:<entity-id>`. This will mean that every `id` in the
system will be unique

#### Data type names should reuse schema.org data types where possible

[Schema.org](http://schema.org/) is an initiative to create common structured
data schemas. In order to promote reuse we have deliberately used the
[`Text`](http://schema.org/PostalAddress) and
[`PostalAddress`](http://schema.org/PostalAddress) type names within our
**Store** entity. Other existing standards such as
[Open311](http://www.open311.org/) (for civic issue tracking) or
[Datex II](http://www.datex2.eu/) (for transport systems) can also be used, but
the point is to check for the existence of the same attribute on existing data
models and reuse it.

#### Use camel case syntax for attribute names

The `streetAddress`, `addressRegion`, `addressLocality` and `postalCode` are all
examples of attributes using camel casing

#### Location information should be defined using `address` and `location` attributes

-   We have used an `address` attribute for civic locations as per
    [schema.org](http://schema.org/)
-   We have used a `location` attribute for geographical coordinates.

#### Use GeoJSON for codifying geospatial properties

[GeoJSON](http://geojson.org) is an open standard format designed for
representing simple geographical features. The `location` attribute has been
encoded as a geoJSON `Point` location.

## Querying Context Data

A consuming application can now request context data by making HTTP requests to
the Orion Context Broker. The existing NGSI interface enables us to make complex
queries and filter results.

At the moment, for the store finder demo all the context data is being added
directly via HTTP requests, however in a more complex smart solution, the Orion
Context Broker will also retrieve context directly from attached sensors
associated to each entity.

Here are a few examples, in each case the `options=keyValues` query parameter
has been used shorten the responses by stripping out the type elements from each
attribute

### Obtain entity data by ID

This example returns the data of `urn:ngsi-ld:Store:001`

#### 4 Request:

```bash
curl -G -X GET \
   'http://localhost:1026/v2/entities/urn:ngsi-ld:Store:001' \
   -d 'options=keyValues'
```

#### Response:

```json
{
    "id": "urn:ngsi-ld:Store:001",
    "type": "Store",
    "address": {
        "streetAddress": "Bornholmer Straße 65",
        "addressRegion": "Berlin",
        "addressLocality": "Prenzlauer Berg",
        "postalCode": "10439"
    },
    "location": {
        "type": "Point",
        "coordinates": [13.3986, 52.5547]
    },
    "name": "Bösebrücke Einkauf"
}
```

### Obtain entity data by type

This example returns the data of all `Store` entities within the context data

#### 5 Request:

```bash
curl -G -X GET \
    'http://localhost:1026/v2/entities' \
    -d 'type=Store' \
    -d 'options=keyValues'
```

#### Response:

```json
[
    {
        "id": "urn:ngsi-ld:Store:001",
        "type": "Store",
        "address": {
            "streetAddress": "Bornholmer Straße 65",
            "addressRegion": "Berlin",
            "addressLocality": "Prenzlauer Berg",
            "postalCode": "10439"
        },
        "location": {
            "type": "Point",
            "coordinates": [13.3986, 52.5547]
        },
        "name": "Bose Brucke Einkauf"
    },
    {
        "id": "urn:ngsi-ld:Store:002",
        "type": "Store",
        "address": {
            "streetAddress": "Friedrichstraße 44",
            "addressRegion": "Berlin",
            "addressLocality": "Kreuzberg",
            "postalCode": "10969"
        },
        "location": {
            "type": "Point",
            "coordinates": [13.3903, 52.5075]
        },
        "name": "Checkpoint Markt"
    }
]
```

### Filter context data by comparing the values of an attribute

This example returns all stores found in the Kreuzberg District

#### 6 Request:

```bash
curl -G -X GET \
    'http://localhost:1026/v2/entities' \
    -d 'type=Store' \
    -d 'q=address.addressLocality==Kreuzberg' \
    -d 'options=keyValues
```

#### Response:

```json
[
    {
        "id": "urn:ngsi-ld:Store:002",
        "type": "Store",
        "address": {
            "streetAddress": "Friedrichstraße 44",
            "addressRegion": "Berlin",
            "addressLocality": "Kreuzberg",
            "postalCode": "10969"
        },
        "location": {
            "type": "Point",
            "coordinates": [13.3903, 52.5075]
        },
        "name": "Checkpoint Markt"
    }
]
```

### Filter context data by comparing the values of a geo:json attribute

This example return all Stores within 1.5km the **Brandenburg Gate** in
**Berlin** (_52.5162N 13.3777W_)

#### 7 Request:

```bash
curl -G -X GET \
  'http://localhost:1026/v2/entities' \
  -d 'type=Store' \
  -d 'georel=near;maxDistance:1500' \
  -d 'geometry=point' \
  -d 'coords=52.5162,13.3777'
```

#### Response:

```json
[
    {
        "id": "urn:ngsi-ld:Store:002",
        "type": "Store",
        "address": {
            "streetAddress": "Friedrichstraße 44",
            "addressRegion": "Berlin",
            "addressLocality": "Kreuzberg",
            "postalCode": "10969"
        },
        "location": {
            "type": "Point",
            "coordinates": [13.3903, 52.5075]
        },
        "name": "Checkpoint Markt"
    }
]
```

## Next Steps

Want to learn how to add more complexity to your application by adding advanced
features? You can find out by reading the other tutorials in this series:

### Iterative Development

The context of the store finder demo is very simple, it could easily be expanded
to hold the whole of a stock management system by passing in the current stock
count of each store as context data to the
[Orion Context Broker](https://fiware-orion.readthedocs.io/en/latest/).

So far, so simple, but consider how this Smart application could be iterated:

-   Real-time dashboards could be created to monitor the state of the stock
    across each store using a visualization component.
    \[[Wirecloud](https://github.com/Fiware/catalogue/blob/master/processing/README.md#Wirecloud)\]
-   The current layout of both the warehouse and store could be passed to the
    context broker so the location of the stock could be displayed on a map
    \[[Wirecloud](https://github.com/Fiware/catalogue/blob/master/processing/README.md#Wirecloud)\]
-   User Management components
    \[[Wilma](https://github.com/Fiware/catalogue/blob/master/security/README.md#Wilma),
    [AuthZForce](https://github.com/Fiware/catalogue/blob/master/security/README.md#Authzforce),
    [Keyrock](https://github.com/Fiware/catalogue/blob/master/security/README.md#Keyrock)\]
    could be added so that only store managers are able to change the price of
    items
-   A threshold alert could be raised in the warehouse as the goods are sold to
    ensure the shelves are not left empty [publish/subscribe function of
    [Orion Context Broker](https://fiware-orion.readthedocs.io/en/latest/)]
-   Each generated list of items to be loaded from the warehouse could be
    calculated to maximize the efficiency of replenishment
    \[[Complex Event Processing - CEP](https://github.com/Fiware/catalogue/blob/master/security/README.md#new-perseo-incubated)\]
-   A motion sensor could be added at the entrance to count the number of
    customers
    \[[IDAS](https://github.com/Fiware/catalogue/blob/master/iot-agents/README.md)\]
-   The motion sensor could ring a bell whenever a customer enters
    \[[IDAS](https://github.com/Fiware/catalogue/blob/master/iot-agents/README.md)\]
-   A series of video cameras could be added to introduce a video feed in each
    store
    \[[Kurento](https://github.com/Fiware/catalogue/blob/master/processing/README.md#Kurento)\]
-   The video images could be processed to recognize where customers are
    standing within a store
    \[[Kurento](https://github.com/Fiware/catalogue/blob/master/processing/README.md#Kurento)\]
-   By maintaining and processing historical data within the system, footfall
    and dwell time can be calculated - establishing which areas of the store
    attract the most interest \[connection through
    [Cygnus](https://github.com/Fiware/catalogue/blob/master/core/README.md#Cygnus)
    to Apache Flink\]
-   Patterns recognizing unusual behaviour could be used to raise an alert to
    avoid theft
    \[[Kurento](https://github.com/Fiware/catalogue/blob/master/processing/README.md#Kurento)\]
-   Data on the movement of crowds would be useful for scientific research -
    data about the state of the store could be published externally.
    \[[extensions to CKAN](https://github.com/Fiware/catalogue/tree/master/data-publication#extensions-to-ckan)\]

Each iteration adds value to the solution through existing components with
standard interfaces and therefore minimizes development time.

Commit message:

Update NGSI Link now that it is a full specification

docs/getting-started.md, after:

[![FIWARE Core Context Management](https://nexus.lab.fiware.org/repository/raw/public/badges/chapters/core.svg)](https://www.fiware.org/developers/catalogue/)
[![NGSI v2](https://img.shields.io/badge/NGSI-v2-blue.svg)](https://fiware-ges.github.io/core.Orion/api/v2/stable/)

**Description:** This is an Introductory Tutorial to the FIWARE Platform. We
will start with the data from a supermarket chain’s store finder and create a
very simple _“Powered by FIWARE”_ application by passing in the address and
location of each store as context data to the FIWARE context broker.

The tutorial uses [cUrl](https://ec.haxx.se/) commands throughout, but is also
available as
[Postman documentation](https://fiware.github.io/tutorials.Getting-Started/)

[![Run in Postman](https://run.pstmn.io/button.svg)](https://app.getpostman.com/run-collection/d6671a59a7e892629d2b)

---

# Architecture

Our demo application will only make use of one FIWARE component - the
[Orion Context Broker](https://fiware-orion.readthedocs.io/en/latest/). Usage of
the Orion Context Broker (with proper context data flowing through it) is
sufficient for an application to qualify as _“Powered by FIWARE”_.

Currently, the Orion Context Broker relies on open source
[MongoDB](https://www.mongodb.com/) technology to keep persistence of the
context data it holds. Therefore, the architecture will consist of two elements:

-   The [Orion Context Broker](https://fiware-orion.readthedocs.io/en/latest/)
    which will receive requests using
    [NGSI](https://fiware.github.io/specifications/OpenAPI/ngsiv2)
-   The underlying [MongoDB](https://www.mongodb.com/) database :
    -   Used by the Orion Context Broker to hold context data information such
        as data entities, subscriptions and registrations

Since all interactions between the two elements are initiated by HTTP requests,
the entities can be containerized and run from exposed ports.

![](https://fiware.github.io/tutorials.Getting-Started/img/architecture.png)

## Prerequisites

### Docker

To keep things simple both components will be run using
[Docker](https://www.docker.com). **Docker** is a container technology which
allows to different components isolated into their respective environments.

-   To install Docker on Windows follow the instructions
    [here](https://docs.docker.com/docker-for-windows/)
-   To install Docker on Mac follow the instructions
    [here](https://docs.docker.com/docker-for-mac/)
-   To install Docker on Linux follow the instructions
    [here](https://docs.docker.com/install/)

### Docker Compose (Optional)

**Docker Compose** is a tool for defining and running multi-container Docker
applications. A
[YAML file](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Fiware/tutorials.Getting-Started/master/docker-compose.yml)
is used configure the required services for the application. This means all
container services can be brought up in a single command. Docker Compose is
installed by default as part of Docker for Windows and Docker for Mac, however
Linux users will need to follow the instructions found
[here](https://docs.docker.com/compose/install/)

## Starting the containers

### Option 1) Using Docker commands directly

First pull the necessary Docker images from Docker Hub and create a network for
our containers to connect to:

```bash
docker pull mongo:3.6
docker pull fiware/orion
docker network create fiware_default
```

A Docker container running a [MongoDB](https://www.mongodb.com/) database can be
started and connected to the network with the following command:

```bash
docker run -d --name=mongo-db --network=fiware_default \
  --expose=27017 mongo:3.6 --bind_ip_all --smallfiles
```

The Orion Context Broker can be started and connected to the network with the
following command:

```bash
docker run -d --name fiware-orion -h orion --network=fiware_default \
  -p 1026:1026  fiware/orion -dbhost mongo-db
```

> **Note:** If you want to clean up and start again you can do so with the
> following commands
>
> ```
> docker stop fiware-orion
> docker rm fiware-orion
> docker stop mongo-db
> docker rm mongo-db
> docker network rm fiware_default
> ```

### Option 2) Using Docker Compose

All services can be initialised from the command-line using the `docker-compose`
command. Please clone the repository and create the necessary images by running
the commands as shown:

```bash
git clone git@github.com:Fiware/tutorials.Getting-Started.git
cd tutorials.Getting-Started

docker-compose -p fiware up -d
```

> **Note:** If you want to clean up and start again you can do so with the
> following command:
>
> ```
> docker-compose -p fiware down
> ```

## Creating your first "Powered by FIWARE" app

### Checking the service health

You can check if the Orion Context Broker is running by making an HTTP request
to the exposed port:

#### 1 Request:

```bash
curl -X GET \
  'http://localhost:1026/version'
```

#### Response:

The response will look similar to the following:

```json
{
    "orion": {
        "version": "1.12.0-next",
        "uptime": "0 d, 0 h, 3 m, 21 s",
        "git_hash": "e2ff1a8d9515ade24cf8d4b90d27af7a616c7725",
        "compile_time": "Wed Apr 4 19:08:02 UTC 2018",
        "compiled_by": "root",
        "compiled_in": "2f4a69bdc191",
        "release_date": "Wed Apr 4 19:08:02 UTC 2018",
        "doc": "https://fiware-orion.readthedocs.org/en/master/"
    }
}
```

> **What if I get a
> `Failed to connect to localhost port 1026: Connection refused` Response?**
>
> If you get a `Connection refused` response, the Orion Content Broker cannot be
> found where expected for this tutorial - you will need to substitute the URL
> and port in each cUrl command with the corrected IP address. All the cUrl
> commands tutorial assume that orion is available on `localhost:1026`.
>
> Try the following remedies:
>
> -   To check that the docker containers are running try the following:
>
> ```
> docker ps
> ```
>
> You should see two containers running. If orion is not running, you can
> restart the containers as necessary. This command will also display open port
> information.
>
> -   If you have installed [`docker-machine`](https://docs.docker.com/machine/)
>     and [Virtual Box](https://www.virtualbox.org/), the orion docker container
>     may be running from another IP address - you will need to retrieve the
>     virtual host IP as shown:
>
> ```
> curl -X GET \
>  'http://$(docker-machine ip default):1026/version'
> ```
>
> Alternatively run all your cUrl commands from within the container network:
>
> ```
> docker run --network fiware_default --rm appropriate/curl -s \
>  -X GET 'http://orion:1026/version'
> ```

## Creating Context Data

At its heart, FIWARE is a system for managing context information, so lets add
some context data into the system by creating two new entities (stores in
**Berlin**). Any entity must have a `id` and `type` attributes, additional
attributes are optional and will depend on the system being described. Each
additional attribute should also have a defined `type` and a `value` attribute.

#### 2 Request:

```bash
curl -iX POST \
  'http://localhost:1026/v2/entities' \
  -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
  -d '
{
    "id": "urn:ngsi-ld:Store:001",
    "type": "Store",
    "address": {
        "type": "PostalAddress",
        "value": {
            "streetAddress": "Bornholmer Straße 65",
            "addressRegion": "Berlin",
            "addressLocality": "Prenzlauer Berg",
            "postalCode": "10439"
        }
    },
    "location": {
        "type": "geo:json",
        "value": {
             "type": "Point",
             "coordinates": [13.3986, 52.5547]
        }
    },
    "name": {
        "type": "Text",
        "value": "Bösebrücke Einkauf"
    }
}'
```

#### 3 Request:

Each subsequent entity must have a unique `id` for the given `type`

```bash
curl -iX POST \
  'http://localhost:1026/v2/entities' \
  -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
  -d '
{
    "type": "Store",
    "id": "urn:ngsi-ld:Store:002",
    "address": {
        "type": "PostalAddress",
        "value": {
            "streetAddress": "Friedrichstraße 44",
            "addressRegion": "Berlin",
            "addressLocality": "Kreuzberg",
            "postalCode": "10969"
        }
    },
    "location": {
        "type": "geo:json",
        "value": {
             "type": "Point",
             "coordinates": [13.3903, 52.5075]
        }
    },
    "name": {
        "type": "Text",
        "value": "Checkpoint Markt"
    }
}'
```

### Data Model Guidelines

Although the each data entity within your context will vary according to your
use case, the common structure within each data entity should be standardized
order to promote reuse. The full FIWARE data model guidelines can be found
[here](https://fiware-datamodels.readthedocs.io/en/latest/guidelines/index.html).
This tutorial demonstrates the usage of the following recommendations:

#### All terms are defined in American English

Although the `value` fields of the context data may be in any language, all
attributes and types are written using the English language.

#### Entity type names must start with a Capital letter

In this case we only have one entity type - **Store**

#### Entity IDs should be a URN following NGSI-LD guidelines

NGSI-LD has recently been published as a full ETSI
[specification](https://www.etsi.org/deliver/etsi_gs/CIM/001_099/009/01.01.01_60/gs_CIM009v010101p.pdf),
the proposal is that each `id` is a URN follows a standard format:
`urn:ngsi-ld:<entity-type>:<entity-id>`. This will mean that every `id` in the
system will be unique

#### Data type names should reuse schema.org data types where possible

[Schema.org](http://schema.org/) is an initiative to create common structured
data schemas. In order to promote reuse we have deliberately used the
[`Text`](http://schema.org/PostalAddress) and
[`PostalAddress`](http://schema.org/PostalAddress) type names within our
**Store** entity. Other existing standards such as
[Open311](http://www.open311.org/) (for civic issue tracking) or
[Datex II](http://www.datex2.eu/) (for transport systems) can also be used, but
the point is to check for the existence of the same attribute on existing data
models and reuse it.

#### Use camel case syntax for attribute names

The `streetAddress`, `addressRegion`, `addressLocality` and `postalCode` are all
examples of attributes using camel casing

#### Location information should be defined using `address` and `location` attributes

-   We have used an `address` attribute for civic locations as per
    [schema.org](http://schema.org/)
-   We have used a `location` attribute for geographical coordinates.

#### Use GeoJSON for codifying geospatial properties

[GeoJSON](http://geojson.org) is an open standard format designed for
representing simple geographical features. The `location` attribute has been
encoded as a geoJSON `Point` location.

## Querying Context Data

A consuming application can now request context data by making HTTP requests to
the Orion Context Broker. The existing NGSI interface enables us to make complex
queries and filter results.

At the moment, for the store finder demo all the context data is being added
directly via HTTP requests, however in a more complex smart solution, the Orion
Context Broker will also retrieve context directly from attached sensors
associated to each entity.

Here are a few examples, in each case the `options=keyValues` query parameter
has been used shorten the responses by stripping out the type elements from each
attribute

### Obtain entity data by ID

This example returns the data of `urn:ngsi-ld:Store:001`

#### 4 Request:

```bash
curl -G -X GET \
   'http://localhost:1026/v2/entities/urn:ngsi-ld:Store:001' \
   -d 'options=keyValues'
```

#### Response:

```json
{
    "id": "urn:ngsi-ld:Store:001",
    "type": "Store",
    "address": {
        "streetAddress": "Bornholmer Straße 65",
        "addressRegion": "Berlin",
        "addressLocality": "Prenzlauer Berg",
        "postalCode": "10439"
    },
    "location": {
        "type": "Point",
        "coordinates": [13.3986, 52.5547]
    },
    "name": "Bösebrücke Einkauf"
}
```

### Obtain entity data by type

This example returns the data of all `Store` entities within the context data

#### 5 Request:

```bash
curl -G -X GET \
    'http://localhost:1026/v2/entities' \
    -d 'type=Store' \
    -d 'options=keyValues'
```

#### Response:

```json
[
    {
        "id": "urn:ngsi-ld:Store:001",
        "type": "Store",
        "address": {
            "streetAddress": "Bornholmer Straße 65",
            "addressRegion": "Berlin",
            "addressLocality": "Prenzlauer Berg",
            "postalCode": "10439"
        },
        "location": {
            "type": "Point",
            "coordinates": [13.3986, 52.5547]
        },
        "name": "Bose Brucke Einkauf"
    },
    {
        "id": "urn:ngsi-ld:Store:002",
        "type": "Store",
        "address": {
            "streetAddress": "Friedrichstraße 44",
            "addressRegion": "Berlin",
            "addressLocality": "Kreuzberg",
            "postalCode": "10969"
        },
        "location": {
            "type": "Point",
            "coordinates": [13.3903, 52.5075]
        },
        "name": "Checkpoint Markt"
    }
]
```

### Filter context data by comparing the values of an attribute

This example returns all stores found in the Kreuzberg District

#### 6 Request:

```bash
curl -G -X GET \
    'http://localhost:1026/v2/entities' \
    -d 'type=Store' \
    -d 'q=address.addressLocality==Kreuzberg' \
    -d 'options=keyValues
```

#### Response:

```json
[
    {
        "id": "urn:ngsi-ld:Store:002",
        "type": "Store",
        "address": {
            "streetAddress": "Friedrichstraße 44",
            "addressRegion": "Berlin",
            "addressLocality": "Kreuzberg",
            "postalCode": "10969"
        },
        "location": {
            "type": "Point",
            "coordinates": [13.3903, 52.5075]
        },
        "name": "Checkpoint Markt"
    }
]
```

### Filter context data by comparing the values of a geo:json attribute

This example return all Stores within 1.5km the **Brandenburg Gate** in
**Berlin** (_52.5162N 13.3777W_)

#### 7 Request:

```bash
curl -G -X GET \
  'http://localhost:1026/v2/entities' \
  -d 'type=Store' \
  -d 'georel=near;maxDistance:1500' \
  -d 'geometry=point' \
  -d 'coords=52.5162,13.3777'
```

#### Response:

```json
[
    {
        "id": "urn:ngsi-ld:Store:002",
        "type": "Store",
        "address": {
            "streetAddress": "Friedrichstraße 44",
            "addressRegion": "Berlin",
            "addressLocality": "Kreuzberg",
            "postalCode": "10969"
        },
        "location": {
            "type": "Point",
            "coordinates": [13.3903, 52.5075]
        },
        "name": "Checkpoint Markt"
    }
]
```

## Next Steps

Want to learn how to add more complexity to your application by adding advanced
features? You can find out by reading the other tutorials in this series:

### Iterative Development

The context of the store finder demo is very simple, it could easily be expanded
to hold the whole of a stock management system by passing in the current stock
count of each store as context data to the
[Orion Context Broker](https://fiware-orion.readthedocs.io/en/latest/).

So far, so simple, but consider how this Smart application could be iterated:

-   Real-time dashboards could be created to monitor the state of the stock
    across each store using a visualization component.
    \[[Wirecloud](https://github.com/Fiware/catalogue/blob/master/processing/README.md#Wirecloud)\]
-   The current layout of both the warehouse and store could be passed to the
    context broker so the location of the stock could be displayed on a map
    \[[Wirecloud](https://github.com/Fiware/catalogue/blob/master/processing/README.md#Wirecloud)\]
-   User Management components
    \[[Wilma](https://github.com/Fiware/catalogue/blob/master/security/README.md#Wilma),
    [AuthZForce](https://github.com/Fiware/catalogue/blob/master/security/README.md#Authzforce),
    [Keyrock](https://github.com/Fiware/catalogue/blob/master/security/README.md#Keyrock)\]
    could be added so that only store managers are able to change the price of
    items
-   A threshold alert could be raised in the warehouse as the goods are sold to
    ensure the shelves are not left empty [publish/subscribe function of
    [Orion Context Broker](https://fiware-orion.readthedocs.io/en/latest/)]
-   Each generated list of items to be loaded from the warehouse could be
    calculated to maximize the efficiency of replenishment
    \[[Complex Event Processing - CEP](https://github.com/Fiware/catalogue/blob/master/security/README.md#new-perseo-incubated)\]
-   A motion sensor could be added at the entrance to count the number of
    customers
    \[[IDAS](https://github.com/Fiware/catalogue/blob/master/iot-agents/README.md)\]
-   The motion sensor could ring a bell whenever a customer enters
    \[[IDAS](https://github.com/Fiware/catalogue/blob/master/iot-agents/README.md)\]
-   A series of video cameras could be added to introduce a video feed in each
    store
    \[[Kurento](https://github.com/Fiware/catalogue/blob/master/processing/README.md#Kurento)\]
-   The video images could be processed to recognize where customers are
    standing within a store
    \[[Kurento](https://github.com/Fiware/catalogue/blob/master/processing/README.md#Kurento)\]
-   By maintaining and processing historical data within the system, footfall
    and dwell time can be calculated - establishing which areas of the store
    attract the most interest \[connection through
    [Cygnus](https://github.com/Fiware/catalogue/blob/master/core/README.md#Cygnus)
    to Apache Flink\]
-   Patterns recognizing unusual behaviour could be used to raise an alert to
    avoid theft
    \[[Kurento](https://github.com/Fiware/catalogue/blob/master/processing/README.md#Kurento)\]
-   Data on the movement of crowds would be useful for scientific research -
    data about the state of the store could be published externally.
    \[[extensions to CKAN](https://github.com/Fiware/catalogue/tree/master/data-publication#extensions-to-ckan)\]

Each iteration adds value to the solution through existing components with
standard interfaces and therefore minimizes development time.
